[SOUND] Now of course,
algorithm would have to
use the second Monte Carlo
version of our formula.
This is because in any
particular environment,
you'd only get access to sessions.
You could only sample trajectories and
record your states, actions, rewards,
next states, next actions, and
so on, until the session ends.
So the algorithm we appear at, it looks
very close what we had in the method.
We start by defining our policy.
This will be your table or
your neural network or
maybe a random forest if you feel
itchy for something tree-based.
Now, we try this at random or
use any domain specific initials
[INAUDIBLE] you can think of.
And then we sample sessions by
following this particular policy.
So at our example you will initialize
the weight of your convolution matrix with
random numbers,
then you'll play a few games.
Now after you finish playing a game you'll
have this trajectory which goes from state
0 up to the n state, the state whatever,
state 10,000 if that's how long it
took for you to finish the game.
Now, if you have this full set of states,
actions and rewards,
you can actually use the rewards to
compute this discounted commodity of game,
the commodity of returns, so called.
If you take your immediate rewards, the r0
r1 and so on until the session ends,
then you just add them up from
the last one up to the first one.
You add them up with the coefficients
defined by your discount, gamma.
You will obtain the estimate
of your your g.
And this is some kind of estimate for
the q function.
Now what you do next,
is you use the policy gradient formula,
you have obtained a few chapters before.
To compute the estimate of the gradient
of your expected reward with respect to
policy given just this one single session.
Now this is a simple
step after which you can
perform a gradient ascend
restrict policy parameters.
Suppose if you use some kind of neural
network you would not only have to compute
the gradient with respect to policy but
also with the respect to
the weight of your neural network.
So here is how the algorithm is
formulated, first initialize,
then sample sessions.
Then use the session you
obtained to compute both the and
then update the brand of the policy.
You can then repeat the steps
from sampling more sessions and
getting more updates to improve
your policy even further.
Now we have just learned on
the definition for reinforce algorithms.
Now, let's see what kind of
properties does it show and
how does it compare to other
algorithms we already know.
To start, let's consider
the on-policy versus off-policy.
Remember we had the on-policy
algorithms like SARSA, and
the off-policy ones like Q-learning.
Now I want you to answer,
what kind of algorithm reinforce is.
Is it on-policy or off-policy?
Session send, as you have probably
guessed, reinforce is on-policy, and
it's this very first step of
the loop that betrays it.
In this step, it's required that
the REINFORCE sample the trajectories for
training from its current policy.
So it would be kind of legal if you just
replace this policy with something else
like human expert or
an experienced samples.
Now, another very important
concept REINFORCE, that there is
actually a way to improve it using
what you've learned about q functions,
v functions, and other functions like.
To begin with,
let's consider this example.
You're training your agent to
perform well in a breakout game in
the Atari environment for example.
This case you have either states where
the ball is on the opposite side of your
field, and you're earning a lot
of points really quickly.
And you'll still have more
complicated states where you're
very close to missing a bowl and there
is just one action that saves you and
the rest is more or
less a guaranteed defeat.
In this case, the Q faction you're
going to get from different states of
random are going to be significantly
different from one another.
The problem here is that if
you use those Q functions,
if you actually multiply your gradients
by those Q functions [INAUDIBLE] formula,
the easiest things where your agent
already gets all the points, but
it doesn't actually do anything right
now to increase the amount of points.
They'll get upweighted,
they'll have large weights.
The difficult states
will have low weights,
because your agent kind of gets
small rewards in this case.
This is also true about pretty much
any practical problem with any
complexity to it.
Let's say you are teaching your
agent to translate sentences,
translate a natural language
from English to French.
In this case,
that'd be many kind of sentences.
The simple example with large
rewards would be a sentence like,
how do I get to the library?
Or Jon Snow or whichever.
Those sentences can be translated very
efficiently and your agent will almost
suddenly get a perfect score,
say out of 100 for translating them,
even if it is not strictly the optimal
translator for this sentence.
Now, the other kind of sentence
is a super complicated one.
Let's say you have maybe
a transcript of this lecture or
some kind of excerpt from maybe
a constitution of some sort.
In this case, the sentence will be
overloaded with a lot of adjectives,
a lot of clauses.
And it's really hard to translate
it by any known translation system.
Now, the problem is that
in this difficult sentence,
any improvement agent makes is actually
going to affect the score much better
than any improvement in
this Jon Snow example.
But the reinforce algorithm,
the policy gradient information we've
just derived, kind of stays the opposite.
This case you would multiply
your simple sentences,
the gradient of simple sentences.
But the slash you want is plus 100, and
your more complicated sentences with
whatever the agent gets, say 20.
This is kind of where, this is not
the kind of behavior you want to exhibit.
On the contrary,
you want to encourage your agent for
doing things that aren't not
just good by themselves.
Not just good because there is just
a simple task to perform this time.
But you want to reward the things that
our goods are in comparison to how your
agent usually performs here.
So if you on average perform
very poor on these sentences,
you'll say you'll get
a reward of 10 out of 100.
Now, you've just got a reward for,
say, 30.
This is a very good improvement.
You have to capitalize on it.
You have to actually make sure
that agents learn this and
learns to repeat this thing more often.
And if it says Jon Snow perfectly,
just like during previous 100 iterations,
it's not a big deal,
even though it gets a perfect score.
Now this basically translates,
that you have baseline in
the reinforcement learning algorithm.
Now the idea here is that you want
to reward not the Q function,
as is written in this formula, but
something called the advantage.
So the advantage is, how good does your
algorithm perform to what it usually does?
It's like the advantage
versus the usual performance.
And this leads us to a bit more math here.
Now, let's define advantage
as the difference between
the Q function of a particular action and
the V function.
The situation here is
that the advantage for
kind of average, okay,
action is going to be near zero.
The advantage of something remarkable,
which has accidentally gotten much more
utility, much more cumulative gain,
much more Q than you expected,
would be a high positive number.
In case of a very simple situation, where
your agent routinely gets large rewards.
Even small detrimental change,
even if you shift from 100 to plus 90,
you'd get the negative advantage.
Because this is the case for
your current Q value is smaller
than the expected Q value.
Now what you actually want to do,
you want to replace the Q
value here with the advantage.
You want to encourage the actions that
are better with respect to the average.
I think we can do that.
From mathematical point of view,
what we do is we simply take the original
formulation and from every Q function here
we subtract something called the baseline.
Now, baseline is just some function
which is only dependent on the state, so
it does not depend on the action.
Mathematically we can actually do so
without changing the optimal policy.
The main intuitive explanation is
that let's say you have two actions.
The first gives you a reward of plus 100.
The second gives you
the reward of plus 90.
And if you subtract 90 from both of those
actions, you'll get the Q values of,
well, 10 and 0.
If you subtract 110,
you'd actually get rewards of -10 and -20.
In both those cases, the optimal
action is going to be the first one,
because it has the highest Q value.
The same applies for
situations with many states.
Just for each state you have some
particular function [INAUDIBLE] from
all the Q functions that you find for
this state that you won't change
your [INAUDIBLE] policy here.
Because every option is being
adjusted by the same amount.
[SOUND]
[MUSIC]